Website
=======

So, you’ve got your :doc:`domain name <domain-name>`.
Great. Now, what you want is when
someone inputs an address into their web browser, they will see your
website. You need a *web hosting* service.

Fortunately, there are many web hosting services. Some are more flexible
than the others. Some are easier to use than the others. Some are
cheaper than the others.

Bottom-line, there are trade-offs. Jot down a list of what are really
necessary for you and what are nice-to-haves including a price range of
what you can afford. Really spend time on this because you will need
this when window shopping.

Click-and-drag web hosting services
-----------------------------------

I’ll start with click-and-drag web hosting services. Included in this
category are the likes of `Weebly <https://www.weebly.com>`_,
`Wix <https://www.wix.com>`_, `Squarespace <https://www.squarespace.com>`_,
and `Jimdo <https://www.jimdo.com>`_.

All of these are similar in many aspects. I recommend that you see which
ones you can afford. Some of these offer free plans that you can use to
try building a mini-version of your website so that you can get a feel
of how comfortable you will be maintaining it in the long run.

There are also services that don’t offer click-and-drag, but they’re
still relatively easy to use. Again, you pick a template, tweak it a
little, and you’ll mostly worry about filling in the content. Included
in this category are the likes of `Wordpress.com <https://wordpress.com>`_
and `Tumblr <https://tumblr.com>`_.

I used Weebly in the past. However, as a computer programmer, I feel the
urge to do a few more advanced things, which brings me to …

Traditional web hosting services
--------------------------------

Another alternative is signing up to a ‘plain’ traditional web hosting
provider. They don’t provide templates and a specific content management
system.

What they offer is a *web server*, and almost all of them provide an
environment where you can write your own code, or you can install some
back-end software. This is the old-skool way.

With the ‘plain’ web hosting, you can author your website on your
computer using web authoring software packages like Adobe Dreamweaver
and Sandvox or even manually with a plain text editor. The files
generated by these applications can then be uploaded to the space
allocated to you.

You can also install a content management system package like Wordpress
and Drupal. There are so many such software packages, too many to list.
All in all, you have a great control of what happens at the backend.

Being the most traditional way of building websites, there are far too
many web hosting providers to list. They offer similar feature sets.
Having said that, shop around. There are also so many web authoring
software packages of various sizes and prices.

Again, as a software developer, I feel even a stronger urge to at least talk
about the hottest new stuff, which now brings me to …

Cloud services
--------------

If you’re technically savvy, or you have the capacity to hire technical
experts, you might want to consider looking at tech giants offering the
so-called cloud services. Included here are the likes of `Amazon Web
Services <https://aws.amazon.com>`_, `Google Cloud <https://cloud.google.com>`_,
and `Microsoft Azure <https://azure.microsoft.com>`_.

They do, however, provide more than web hosting. Actually, web hosting
is just one of the plethora of services they offer. So, it could be
overwhelming.

In terms of flexibility, these services are the most flexible in
almost every aspect. You can choose the geographical location to host
your website, what software you use, and even implement features that
others don’t have.

Now, the good news is that, you might not realise that when you use
the other kinds of webhosting, you are already using these cloud
services indirectly!

Which one to choose?
--------------------

In choosing one that serves your need, you need to ask yourself that
question. I can personally say that all are fine. It comes down to how
much you can spend and how much control over your website you wish to
have.

When I started my website `adeishs.com <https://www.adeishs.com>`_, I
used `Dreamhost <https://dreamhost.com>`_, a ‘plain’ web hosting
provider, with a content management system I wrote and maintained
myself. Then I moved to Weebly, and a later on, WebFaction. Now I’m
back with Dreamhost and I use Wordpress.

I admit that I’ve been tempted to move to AWS or Google Cloud, but
let’s see.

Website content
---------------

What should you put inside your website? My advice: see if your musical
hero has a website.

Yes? Go there.

You can copy the structure. Some items may not apply. For example, if
you’re new into the scene, you might not have press quotes, so you can
skip that for now. Remember, you can add stuff as your career
progresses.

If you look at other websites belonging to musicians, you could notice
that there some common things included (in no particular order):

* People want to know you. Tell them. Don’t know what to write?
  Either hire a writer or look at some other bios. Copy the outline of
  one that’s suitable (not the text, though!) and write your own
  story. For a start, even two paragraphs will do.

* You want to get gigs, don’t you? Include the best way to contact
  you or your managements (bookings, publicity, and so on).

* You want people to come to your gigs, don’t you? Include where,
  when, and how to get tickets.

* If you make recordings, you want people to buy your music, don’t
  you? Include how to get it and some basic info. If you have reviews,
  include them, too.

* Tell people what you sound like. Attract them to your art. People
  want samples before they watch your gigs and buy your albums.

Confused? Start by asking friends what they think about your music. If
you’re in a band, ask the other musicians in the band. Things they say
about you are probably more than what you can put on your website.
